[Music]
for exercises to test how fast your
brain is regular exercise helps you stay
in good shape and push back the
appearance of changes associated with
old age
this fact applies to all the organs in
your body including your brain that's
why today we're going to tell you about
four simple exercises that can help
preserve your memory also you have a
unique chance to check how fast your
brain is let's begin exercise number one
multi-coloured text we're going to show
you words written in different colors
proceed to say aloud the name of the
color in which each of the words on the
list is written ready go
[Music]
I guess it isn't that easy to do that it
might seem now let's name each color
again in reverse order ready go
[Music]
did you manage to do it
expect the going to be difficult at
first since the sections responsible for
Tex perception and color perception are
located in different hemispheres of the
brain why is this exercise beneficial to
your brain it helps to prevent
Alzheimer's disease by establishing new
connections between the hemispheres and
improves concentration and attention
switching abilities exercise to schulte
table here's a simple table focus on the
number 19 in the center of the square
your goal is to find the number 1 and
then all the remaining numbers in
ascending order fixing your gaze on each
in turn let's give it a try I'll give
you 30 seconds for a start are you doing
there did you manage to find the
remaining numbers keep going on only 10
seconds left
well done this exercise increases the
reception and processing of information
speed and develops peripheral vision
later on you can draw your own table
don't forget to arrange the numbers in
the cells randomly alternatively you can
search for schulte tables on the
internet exercise number three finger
gestures arrange the fingers of the
right hand so as to make the peace sign
well simultaneously making the okay sign
with your left hand got it then change
the arrangement of the fingers so that
your left hand shows peace and your
right hand shows okay you should repeat
this exercise several times let's do it
five times for a start one two three
four five was it easy for you then
perform the exercise with both hands at
once here are your ten seconds to try
ready go it wasn't that easy right yes
this exercise is a tricky one however it
is beneficial as it trains attention and
develops the ability to switch from one
task to another quickly
[Music]
exercise number four by manual
synchronous writing for this exercise
you'll need two sheets of paper and a
pair of easy-to-use writing utensils
when everything is ready start drawing
different geometric shapes with both
hands at once you can also write letters
or words provided the number of
characters is the same for either hand
let's give it a try right now
ten seconds are all yours
[Music]
synchronous writing teaches your brain
to handle multiple tasks simultaneously
thus stimulating the activity of both
hemispheres finally here is some
additional advice a well-known
neuroscientist Lawrence Katz has
developed a system of exercises to keep
your brain maintaining its functions
into a ripe old age here are four tips
from his books 1 try to perform mundane
everyday rituals such as brushing your
teeth or combing your hair using your
non-dominant hand 2 while taking a
shower or performing other routine
activities do everything with your eyes
closed 3 frequently change the routes
you use for commuting to work going to
shops or reaching other regular
destinations for while watching a movie
try turning off the sound and relying on
the actor's gestures and movements to
guess what they are talking about we
hope this video was helpful for you and
you're going to start performing these
simple exercises on a regular basis they
can help you retain a sound mind and
clear your memory well share this video
with others hit the like button below
and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]